===================================
Output & Results
===================================

Command Line Output
===================
When running the workflow you should see output similar to:

.. code-block:: console

    N E X T F L O W  ~  version 22.10.5
    Launching `/home/mriffle/tmp/nf-skyline-dia-ms/main.nf` [stoic_feynman] DSL2 - revision: 34335bd586
    executor >  slurm (10)
    [16/ab4074] process > get_input_files:PANORAMA_GET_FASTA                   [100%] 1 of 1 ✔
    [skipped  ] process > get_wide_mzmls:MSCONVERT (1)                         [100%] 1 of 1, stored: 1 ✔
    [32/5df5b3] process > ENCYCLOPEDIA_BLIB_TO_DLIB                            [100%] 1 of 1 ✔
    [skipped  ] process > get_narrow_mzmls:MSCONVERT (1)                       [100%] 2 of 2, stored: 2 ✔
    [e9/12221d] process > encyclopeda_export_elib:ENCYCLOPEDIA_SEARCH_FILE (2) [100%] 2 of 2 ✔
    [73/eb8a16] process > encyclopeda_export_elib:ENCYCLOPEDIA_CREATE_ELIB     [100%] 1 of 1 ✔
    [e1/dcca0b] process > encyclopedia_quant:ENCYCLOPEDIA_SEARCH_FILE (1)      [100%] 1 of 1 ✔
    [ec/89bf5e] process > encyclopedia_quant:ENCYCLOPEDIA_CREATE_ELIB          [100%] 1 of 1 ✔
    [ca/247f6e] process > skyline_import:SKYLINE_ADD_LIB                       [100%] 1 of 1 ✔
    [9c/56ec4e] process > skyline_import:SKYLINE_IMPORT_MZML (1)               [100%] 1 of 1 ✔
    [5e/09549d] process > skyline_import:SKYLINE_MERGE_RESULTS                 [100%] 1 of 1 ✔
    Completed at: 07-Jun-2023 13:24:28
    Duration    : 40m 23s
    CPU hours   : 45.2
    Succeeded   : 10

The first line shows the version of Nextflow you are running. The second line shows the version of the workflow
you are running. The third line shows the executor you are using. An executor in Nextflow describes the actual
system the steps of the workflow are running on. In this case the *slurm* computer cluster executor was used.
The next several lines show the actual steps of the workflow as they are running. If a particular step is run
multiple times (e.g., converting many RAW files to mzML using msconvert), the percent complete shows the
percentage of the RAW files that have been converted. The final four lines appear when the workflow completes,
showing the completion time, how long it took, and the number
of steps that succeeded.

Workflow Log
============
The log file called ``.nextflow.log`` will appear in the directory in which the workflow was run. It can be helpful
for determining the cause of any problems. A log file will also be generated for each task executed by the workflow,
which will be described below.

Workflow Results
================
All results will be output to the ``results/nf-skyline-dia-ms`` subdirectory in the directory in which the workflow was
run. In this directory is a subdirectory for each program that was run as part of the workflow. By default, the final
Skyline document called ``final.sky.zip`` will be present in the ``skyline/import-spectra`` directory (this file name
can be customized). The final EncyclopeDIA results file called ``wide-combined-results.elib`` will be present in the
``encyclopedia/create-elib`` drectory. A full description of output files can be found below.

Output Files
============
Below are each subdirectory created in ``results/nf-skyline-dia-ms`` and a description of files
that will be found in those directories.

``panorama`` Subdirectory
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
This directory contains logs for file transfers from PanoramaWeb. There will be a ``*.stderr`` and ``*.stdout`` for
each file that was transferred. Any errors encountered transferring that file will be present in the ``stderr`` file.
And the command line output of the transfer program can be found in the ``stdout`` file.

``encyclopedia/convert-blib`` Subdirectory
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
If the user submits a *blib* spectral library, EncyclopeDIA will be used to convert it to a *dlib*, which is used in
subsequent steps of the workflow. The files present in this directory will be:

- ``file.dlib`` - The *dlib* that was generated by EncyclopeDIA. *file* will be the base filename of the *blib* file.
- ``encyclopedia-convert-blib.stdout`` - The command line output of EncyclopeDIA for the conversion.
- ``encyclopedia-convert-blib.stderr`` - Any error output generated for the conversion.


``encyclopedia/search-file`` Subdirectory
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
This directory contains the output from EncyclopeDIA when searching individual scan files (mzML files). There will be
a set of files for each scan file that was searched, where all files in that set will have the same base name as the
scan file. E.g., if the scan filed was named ``my_scan_file.raw``, each file in the set would begin with ``my_scan_file``.

    .. note::

        The ``encyclopedia.save_output`` configuration parameter (see :doc:`workflow_parameters`) affects which files will
        be present in this directory. If ``encyclopedia.save_output`` is set to ``true``, all files will be present. If 
        ``encyclopedia.save_output`` is set to ``false``, only the ``stdout`` and ``stderr`` files will be present.

The files present for each scan file will be:

- ``my_scan_file.dia`` - EncyclopeDIA converts *mzML* files into the *dia* format, which is how it represents scan data. These files may be quite large.
- ``my_scan_file.mzML.elib`` - The *elib* file generated by EncyclopeDIA for this scan file.
- ``my_scan_file.mzML.encyclopedia.decoy.txt`` - The decoy peptides identified by EncyclopeDIA for this scan file.
- ``my_scan_file.mzML.encyclopedia.txt`` - The target peptides identified by EncyclopeDIA for this scan file.
- ``my_scan_file.mzML.features.txt`` - Features generated by EncyclopeDIA for this scan file as input for Percolator.
- ``my_scan_file.stdout`` - The command line output of EncyclopeDIA for the search of this scan file.
- ``my_scan_file.stderr`` - Any error output generated for the search of this scan file.

``encyclopedia/create-elib`` Subdirectory
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
When EncyclopeDIA is done searching individual scan files, the results are combined into a single *elib* file. This happens
both for the narrow window chromatogram generation step (if it is being performed) and the quantification step (wide window).
The files present in this directory will be:

- ``narrow-combined-results.elib`` - If a narrow window chromatogram generation step is being performed, this is the resulting *elib* from that step.
- ``narrow.stdout`` - If a narrow window chromatogram generation step is being performed, this is the command line output of EncyclopeDIA during *elib* generation.
- ``narrow.stderr`` - If a narrow window chromatogram generation step is being performed, this is the error output of EncyclopeDIA during *elib* generation.
- ``wide-combined-results.elib`` - This is the *elib* generated by merging and quantifying peptides and proteins from the individual scan files.
- ``wide.stdout`` - This is the command line output of EncyclopeDIA during this step.
- ``wide.stderr`` - This is the error output of EncyclopeDIA during this step.

``skyline/add-lib`` Subdirectory
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The first step to creating the final Skyline document is importing the results of EncyclopeDIA into the Skyline template document. This
directory contains the results of this step. The files present in this directory will be:

- ``results.sky.zip`` - The intermediate Skyline document, containing EncyclopeDIA results.
- ``skyline_add_library.log`` - The log output generated by Skyline for this step.

``skyline/import-spectra`` Subdirectory
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Skyline imports scan data in parallel for each scan file and merges those results into a single, final Skyline document. For each scan file, these
files will be present:

- ``my_scan_file.mzML.skyd`` - The intermediate *skyd* file generated by Skyline when importing this scan file.
- ``my_scan_file.log`` - The log output generated by Skyline for this step.

Then for the merge step, these files will be present:

- ``final.sky.zip`` - The final Skyline document containing all scan data and all EncyclopeDIA results. This file name can be customized using the ``skyline_document_name`` parameter.
- ``skyline-merge.log`` - The log output generated by Skyline for the merge step.

``skyline/reports`` Subdirectory
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
If ``.skyr`` files are specified in the parameters, all reports defined in those files will be run after the Skyline document is populated. The files generated are:

- ``report_name.report.tsv`` - The output of the ``report_name`` report in TSV format. ``report_name`` is the name of the reported defined in the ``.skyr`` file.
- ``report_name.report-generation.log`` - The log generated by Skyline when generating the report for ``report_name``.
- ``skyline-import-skyr_file_name.log`` - The log generated by Skyline when importing the ``skyr_file_name`` ``.skyr`` file.
